distrib/mac68k/ramdisk/install.md, before:

#       $OpenBSD: src/distrib/mac68k/ramdisk/Attic/install.md,v 1.32 2009/04/12 12:56:02 krw Exp $
#
# Copyright (c) 2002, Miodrag Vallat.
# All rights reserved.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ITS AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
# WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
# MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
# EVENT SHALL ITS AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
# SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
# OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
# WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
# OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
# ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS="bsdsbc bsdsbc.rd"
ARCH=ARCH

md_installboot() {
}

md_prep_disklabel() {
	local _disk=$1 _f _op
 
	disklabel -W $_disk >/dev/null 2>&1
	if [[ -n $(disklabel -c $_disk 2>/dev/null | grep ' HFS ') ]]; then
		cat <<__EOT
This disk has been setup under MacOS. You will now edit a MacOS partition
table. Be careful not to remove the MacOS partitions in use.
__EOT
		pdisk /dev/${_disk}c
		return
	fi

	cat <<__EOT
This disk is not shared with MacOS. You will now edit a regular OpenBSD
disklabel.
__EOT
	fi

	_f=/tmp/fstab.$_disk
	if [[ $_disk == $ROOTDISK ]]; then
		while :; do
			echo "The auto-allocated layout for $_disk is:"
			disklabel -A $_disk | egrep "^#  |^  [a-p]:"
			ask "Use (A)uto layout, (E)dit auto layout, or create (C)ustom layout?" a
			case $resp in
			a*|A*)	_op=-w ; AUTOROOT=y ;;
			e*|E*)	_op=-E ;;
			c*|C*)	break ;;
			*)	continue ;;
			esac
			disklabel -f $_f $_op -A $_disk
			return
		done
 	fi
	disklabel -f $_f -E $_disk
}

md_congrats() {
}

md_consoleinfo() {
}

Commit message:

Remind people that mountpoints must now be entered using the disklabel command; the script does not ask afterwards.  Note I am not adjusting the macppc or sgi install.md scripts.  I ask their maintainers to clean them before I will maintain them further.  Please

distrib/mac68k/ramdisk/install.md, after:

#       $OpenBSD: src/distrib/mac68k/ramdisk/Attic/install.md,v 1.33 2009/05/11 17:13:07 deraadt Exp $
#
# Copyright (c) 2002, Miodrag Vallat.
# All rights reserved.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ITS AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
# WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
# MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
# EVENT SHALL ITS AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
# SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
# OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
# WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
# OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
# ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS="bsdsbc bsdsbc.rd"
ARCH=ARCH

md_installboot() {
}

md_prep_disklabel() {
	local _disk=$1 _f _op
 
	disklabel -W $_disk >/dev/null 2>&1
	if [[ -n $(disklabel -c $_disk 2>/dev/null | grep ' HFS ') ]]; then
		cat <<__EOT
This disk has been setup under MacOS. You will now edit a MacOS partition
table. Be careful not to remove the MacOS partitions in use.
__EOT
		pdisk /dev/${_disk}c
		return
	fi

	cat <<__EOT
This disk is not shared with MacOS. You will now edit a regular OpenBSD
disklabel.
__EOT
	fi

	_f=/tmp/fstab.$_disk
	if [[ $_disk == $ROOTDISK ]]; then
		while :; do
			echo "The auto-allocated layout for $_disk is:"
			disklabel -A $_disk | egrep "^#  |^  [a-p]:"
			ask "Use (A)uto layout, (E)dit auto layout, or create (C)ustom layout?" a
			case $resp in
			a*|A*)	_op=-w ; AUTOROOT=y ;;
			e*|E*)	_op=-E ;;
			c*|C*)	break ;;
			*)	continue ;;
			esac
			disklabel -f $_f $_op -A $_disk
			return
		done
 	fi
	cat <<__EOT
You will now create a OpenBSD disklabel on the disk.  The disklabel defines
how OpenBSD splits up the disk into OpenBSD partitions in which filesystems
and swap space are created.  You must provide each filesystem's mountpoint
in this program.

__EOT
	disklabel -f $_f -E $_disk
}

md_congrats() {
}

md_consoleinfo() {
}
