distrib/mvme68k/ramdisk/install.md, before:

#       $OpenBSD: src/distrib/mvme68k/ramdisk/install.md,v 1.15 2002/04/25 21:28:13 miod Exp $
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
# 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
#    must display the following acknowledgement:
#        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
#        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
# 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS=kernel
ARCH=ARCH

md_set_term() {
	if [ ! -z "$TERM" ]; then
		return
	fi
	echo -n "Specify terminal type [vt100]: "
	getresp "vt100"
	TERM="$resp"
	export TERM
}

md_get_diskdevs() {
	# return available disk devices
	bsort `dmesg | egrep -a "^[sw]d[0-9]+ " | cutword 1`
}

md_get_cddevs() {
	# return available CDROM devices
	bsort `dmesg | egrep -a "^cd[0-9]+ " | cutword 1`
}

md_get_partition_range() {
	# return range of valid partition letters
	echo [a-p]
}

md_questions() {
	:
}

md_installboot() {
	echo Installing boot block...
	cp /mnt/usr/mdec/bootsd /mnt/bootsd
	/mnt/usr/mdec/installboot -v /mnt/bootsd /mnt/usr/mdec/bootxx /dev/r${1}a
}

md_native_fstype() {
	:
}

md_native_fsopts() {
	:
}

md_checkfordisklabel() {
	# $1 is the disk to check
	local rval

	disklabel $1 >> /dev/null 2> /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	if grep "no disk label" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=1
	elif grep "disk label corrupted" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=2
	else
		rval=0
	fi

	rm -f /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	return $rval
}

md_prep_disklabel()
{
	local _disk

	_disk=$1
	md_checkfordisklabel $_disk
	case $? in
	0)	echo -n "Do you wish to edit the disklabel on $_disk? [y] "
		;;
	1)	echo "WARNING: Disk $_disk has no label"
		echo -n "Do you want to create one with the disklabel editor? [y] "
		;;
	2)	echo "WARNING: Label on disk $_disk is corrupted"
		echo -n "Do you want to try and repair the damage using the disklabel editor? [y] "
		;;
	esac

	getresp "y"
	case "$resp" in
	y*|Y*)	;;
	*)	return ;;
	esac

	# display example
	cat << __EOT

Here is an example of what the partition information will look like once
you have entered the disklabel editor. Disk partition sizes and offsets
are in sector (most likely 512 bytes) units. Make sure these size/offset
pairs are on cylinder boundaries (the number of sector per cylinder is
given in the `sectors/cylinder' entry, which is not shown here).

Do not change any parameters except the partition layout and the label name.
It's probably also wisest not to touch the `16 partitions:' line, even
in case you have defined less than sixteen partitions.

[Example]
16 partitions:
#        size   offset    fstype   [fsize bsize   cpg]
  a:    50176        0    4.2BSD     1024  8192    16   # (Cyl.    0 - 111)
  b:    64512    50176      swap                        # (Cyl.  112 - 255)
  c:   640192        0   unknown                        # (Cyl.    0 - 1428)
  d:   525504   114688    4.2BSD     1024  8192    16   # (Cyl.  256 - 1428)
[End of example]

__EOT
	echo -n "Press [Enter] to continue "
	getresp ""
	disklabel -W ${_disk}
	disklabel -f /tmp/fstab.${_disk} -E ${_disk}
}

md_welcome_banner() {
{
	if [ "$MODE" = "install" ]; then
		cat << __EOT
Welcome to the OpenBSD/mvme68k ${VERSION_MAJOR}.${VERSION_MINOR} installation program.

This program is designed to help you put OpenBSD on your disk, in a simple and
rational way.
__EOT

	else
		cat << __EOT
Welcome to the OpenBSD/mvme68k ${VERSION_MAJOR}.${VERSION_MINOR} upgrade program.

This program is designed to help you upgrade your OpenBSD system in a simple
and rational way.  As a reminder, installing the 'etc' binary set is NOT
recommended.  Once the rest of your system has been upgraded, you should
manually merge any changes to files in the 'etc' set into those files which
already exist on your system.
__EOT
	fi

cat << __EOT

As with anything which modifies your disk's contents, this
program can cause SIGNIFICANT data loss, and you are advised
to make sure your data is backed up before beginning the
installation process.

Default answers are displayed in brackets after the questions.
You can hit Control-C at any time to quit, but if you do so at a
prompt, you may have to hit return.  Also, quitting in the middle of
installation may leave your system in an inconsistent state.

__EOT
} | more
}

md_not_going_to_install() {
	cat << __EOT

OK, then.  Enter `halt' at the prompt to halt the machine.  Once the
machine has halted, power-cycle the system to load new boot code.

__EOT
}

md_congrats() {
	local what;
	if [ "$MODE" = "install" ]; then
		what="installed";
	else
		what="upgraded";
	fi
	cat << __EOT

CONGRATULATIONS!  You have successfully $what OpenBSD!  To boot the
installed system, enter halt at the command prompt. Once the system has
halted, reset the machine and boot from the disk.

__EOT
}

Commit message:

Change getresp() into ask().
ask() takes 2 parameters. The first one is the question to
ask the user, and the 2nd is the default answer.

Shrinks and makes the code clearer.

From espie@ with some tweaking, ok deraadt@.

distrib/mvme68k/ramdisk/install.md, after:

#       $OpenBSD: src/distrib/mvme68k/ramdisk/install.md,v 1.16 2002/04/28 14:44:01 krw Exp $
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
# 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
#    must display the following acknowledgement:
#        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
#        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
# 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS=kernel
ARCH=ARCH

md_set_term() {
	if [ ! -z "$TERM" ]; then
		return
	fi
	ask "Specify terminal type:" vt100
	TERM="$resp"
	export TERM
}

md_get_diskdevs() {
	# return available disk devices
	bsort `dmesg | egrep -a "^[sw]d[0-9]+ " | cutword 1`
}

md_get_cddevs() {
	# return available CDROM devices
	bsort `dmesg | egrep -a "^cd[0-9]+ " | cutword 1`
}

md_get_partition_range() {
	# return range of valid partition letters
	echo [a-p]
}

md_questions() {
	:
}

md_installboot() {
	echo Installing boot block...
	cp /mnt/usr/mdec/bootsd /mnt/bootsd
	/mnt/usr/mdec/installboot -v /mnt/bootsd /mnt/usr/mdec/bootxx /dev/r${1}a
}

md_native_fstype() {
	:
}

md_native_fsopts() {
	:
}

md_checkfordisklabel() {
	# $1 is the disk to check
	local rval

	disklabel $1 >> /dev/null 2> /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	if grep "no disk label" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=1
	elif grep "disk label corrupted" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=2
	else
		rval=0
	fi

	rm -f /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	return $rval
}

md_prep_disklabel()
{
	local _disk

	_disk=$1
	md_checkfordisklabel $_disk
	case $? in
	0)	ask "Do you wish to edit the disklabel on $_disk?" y
		;;
	1)	echo "WARNING: Disk $_disk has no label"
		ask "Do you want to create one with the disklabel editor?" y
		;;
	2)	echo "WARNING: Label on disk $_disk is corrupted"
		ask "Do you want to try and repair the damage using the disklabel editor?" y
		;;
	esac

	case "$resp" in
	y*|Y*)	;;
	*)	return ;;
	esac

	# display example
	cat << __EOT

Here is an example of what the partition information will look like once
you have entered the disklabel editor. Disk partition sizes and offsets
are in sector (most likely 512 bytes) units. Make sure these size/offset
pairs are on cylinder boundaries (the number of sector per cylinder is
given in the `sectors/cylinder' entry, which is not shown here).

Do not change any parameters except the partition layout and the label name.
It's probably also wisest not to touch the `16 partitions:' line, even
in case you have defined less than sixteen partitions.

[Example]
16 partitions:
#        size   offset    fstype   [fsize bsize   cpg]
  a:    50176        0    4.2BSD     1024  8192    16   # (Cyl.    0 - 111)
  b:    64512    50176      swap                        # (Cyl.  112 - 255)
  c:   640192        0   unknown                        # (Cyl.    0 - 1428)
  d:   525504   114688    4.2BSD     1024  8192    16   # (Cyl.  256 - 1428)
[End of example]

__EOT
	ask "Press [Enter] to continue"
	disklabel -W ${_disk}
	disklabel -f /tmp/fstab.${_disk} -E ${_disk}
}

md_welcome_banner() {
{
	if [ "$MODE" = "install" ]; then
		cat << __EOT
Welcome to the OpenBSD/mvme68k ${VERSION_MAJOR}.${VERSION_MINOR} installation program.

This program is designed to help you put OpenBSD on your disk, in a simple and
rational way.
__EOT

	else
		cat << __EOT
Welcome to the OpenBSD/mvme68k ${VERSION_MAJOR}.${VERSION_MINOR} upgrade program.

This program is designed to help you upgrade your OpenBSD system in a simple
and rational way.  As a reminder, installing the 'etc' binary set is NOT
recommended.  Once the rest of your system has been upgraded, you should
manually merge any changes to files in the 'etc' set into those files which
already exist on your system.
__EOT
	fi

cat << __EOT

As with anything which modifies your disk's contents, this
program can cause SIGNIFICANT data loss, and you are advised
to make sure your data is backed up before beginning the
installation process.

Default answers are displayed in brackets after the questions.
You can hit Control-C at any time to quit, but if you do so at a
prompt, you may have to hit return.  Also, quitting in the middle of
installation may leave your system in an inconsistent state.

__EOT
} | more
}

md_not_going_to_install() {
	cat << __EOT

OK, then.  Enter `halt' at the prompt to halt the machine.  Once the
machine has halted, power-cycle the system to load new boot code.

__EOT
}

md_congrats() {
	local what;
	if [ "$MODE" = "install" ]; then
		what="installed";
	else
		what="upgraded";
	fi
	cat << __EOT

CONGRATULATIONS!  You have successfully $what OpenBSD!  To boot the
installed system, enter halt at the command prompt. Once the system has
halted, reset the machine and boot from the disk.

__EOT
}
